1. Can plastic straws be recycled?
Plastic straws and other items smaller than two by two inches, such as plastic utensils, fall through the machinery that sorts our recycling. The best way to keep plastic straws out of landfills is not to use them - whether you're at home or in a restaurant.
If you'd like to use a straw, there are paper and other nonplastic alternatives.
All this disposed Plastic ultimately shall reach ocean or earth, only to come back to food chain

2. Can you recycle frozen food boxes?
Frozen food boxes are made from paperboard — the same material as cereal boxes. The important difference is that the paperboard is combined with polyethylene (#4 or LDPE), a type of plastic that helps maintain the paper structure of the container when it’s exposed to cold temperatures. While good for packaging food, this plastic is not easily separated from the paperboard. As a result, recycling frozen food boxes can be problematic. Some municipalities cannot accept this plastic into their recycling stream. Some companies, like Petaluma, California-based Amy's Kitchen, Inc., package frozen food in boxes with no coating so they can be recycled; the boxes are specially labeled as recyclable by  the company to remove any doubt.

Portland, Oregon, for example, does not accept frozen food boxes.

3. Can you recycle plastic bags?
Plastic bags are the top nuisance at recycling facilities. They get caught in the machinery and they eat up valuable staff time, since workers have to remove them one by one.
Bagging recyclables before you toss them in the bin causes even bigger problems, since workers have to tear open the bag and risk being exposed to potentially dangerous substances. Some facilities won't allow employees to open bags, meaning all your precious recyclables end up in the garbage.

4. Do you have to remove caps from plastic bottles before recycling those?
Yes, Plastic caps have a different melting point than the bottles they come with, so they can't be recycled. Don't worry about the plastic ring that's left behind on the bottle when you remove the cap — it's small enough not to cause problems.

5. Can you recycle soy milk boxes in Portland?
The "aseptic" beverage cartons designed to sit on store shelves at room temperature contain a layer of foil as well as plastic coating, so it's hard to separate the materials for recycling. Some facilities accept aseptic cartons, such as the one in Portland, but not many others.

6. Can you recycle vases?
That kind of glass is intended to withstand reuse and so it has a much higher melting temperature than a single-use glass. The sturdy glass stays solid as the other types melt, contaminating the product.

7. Do you have to bag shredded paper before recycling it in Portland?
When mixed papers are sorted at the recycling facility, itty-bitty slivers tend to fall through the cracks into the trash pile — or worse, clog up the machinery.

8. Can you throw batteries in the trash?
The majority of batteries contain harmful heavy metals such as lead, mercury and copper.
All of these elements are extremely hazardous to both the environment and human health, and are able to permeate into the ground soil and thus water supplies when they are placed into landfill. For this reason, placing them in your household bin to dispose of them is not a safe option, as their harmful chemical content will ultimately make its way back into our water supplies.
Rechargeable, Lithium Ion batteries can be recycled, but only at specified locations. When you discard them, they must be disposed of at a battery recycling drop off location, NOT placed in the trash.

9. Can certified compostable plastic containers composted in Portland?
Labels like "compostable" and "biodegradable" are well-intentioned, but they’re not always accurate. Many products labeled "compostable" or "biodegradable" don’t break down at local composting facilities. Compostable and biodegradable products should also never be put in recycling, as they cause major problems for the recycling industry.
Encourage your favorite restaurants to switch to re-usable dishware and utensils for eat-in orders. For to-go orders, take away as little packaging and paper as possible. Bring your own coffee mug, and ask your local coffee shop to offer discounts for bringing your own mug.

10. What should I do with soiled pizza boxes?
In Portland, you can throw pizza boxes in compost along with food scraps, coffee filters, tea bags, paper napkins and paper towels. Pizza boxes that are soiled should never go into your recycling bin. If composting is not available to you, you can cut out the soiled part throw that in the trash and put the clean rest of the pizza box in your recycling.
